Caching<br/>
* Caching is a technique of storing frequently used data/information in memory, so that, when the same data/information is needed next time.<br/>
* it could be directly retrieved from the memory instead of being generated by the application.<br/>
* The ASP.NET runtime includes a key-value map of CLR objects called cache.<br/><br/>
The data will not be available in the following cases:<br/>
* If its lifetime expires,<br/>
* If the application releases its memory,<br/>
* If caching does not take place for some reason.<br/>

**Types of caching**:<br/><br/>
Output Caching:<br/>
* Output Cache directive enables Output Caching.<br/>
* For a specific duration data is reterived from Cache.<br/>
* Substitution control always take data from server even if Output Cache is set.<br/>
* Syntax: <%@ OutputCache Duration="15" VaryByParam="None" %><br/>
* protected void Page_Load(object sender, EventArgs e)<br/>
{<br/>
   Response.Write("This page was generated and cache at:" +<br/>
   DateTime.Now.ToString());<br/>
}

**Data Caching**:<br/><br/>
This is the most flexible type of caching but requires some code to implement. The basic principle is that you add items that are expensive to create to a special built-in collection object (called cache), which is globally available.<br/>
CacheDuration - It sets the number of seconds for which the data source will cache data.<br/>

CacheExpirationPolicy - It defines the cache behavior when the data in cache has expired.<br/>

CacheKeyDependency - It identifies a key for the controls that auto-expires the content of its cache when removed.<br/>

EnableCaching - It specifies whether or not to cache the data.<br/>

**Object Caching**.<br/><br/>
Object caching provides more flexibility than other cache techniques. You can use object caching to place any object in the cache. The object can be of any type - a data type, a web control, a class, a dataset object, etc. The item is added to the cache simply by assigning a new key name, shown as follows Like:<br/>
Cache["key"] = item;<br/>
example<br/>
Sliding expiration is used to remove an item from the cache when it is not used for the specified time span. The following code snippet stores an item with a sliding expiration of 10 minutes with no dependencies.<br/>
protected void Page_Load(object sender, EventArgs e)<br/>
{<br/>
   if (this.IsPostBack)<br/>
   {<br/>
      lblinfo.Text += "Page Posted Back.<br/>";
   }<br/>
   else<br/>
   {<br/>
      lblinfo.Text += "page Created.<br/>";<br/>
   }<br/>
   
   if (Cache["testitem"] == null)<br/>
   {<br/>
      lblinfo.Text += "Creating test item.<br/>";<br/>
      DateTime testItem = DateTime.Now;<br/>
      lblinfo.Text += "Storing test item in cache ";<br/>
      lblinfo.Text += "for 30 seconds.<br/>";<br/>
      Cache.Insert("testitem", testItem, null, <br/>
      DateTime.Now.AddSeconds(30), TimeSpan.Zero);<br/>
   }<br/>
   else<br/>
   {<br/>
      lblinfo.Text += "Retrieving test item.<br/>";<br/>
      DateTime testItem = (DateTime)Cache["testitem"];<br/>
      lblinfo.Text += "Test item is: " + testItem.ToString();<br/>
      lblinfo.Text += "<br/>";<br/>
   }<br/>
      
   lblinfo.Text += "<br/>";<br/>
}<br/>

output:<br/>
Page Created.<br/>
Creating test item.<br/>
Storing test item in cache for 30 seconds.<br/>
Page Posted Back.<br/>
Retrieving test item.<br/>
Test item is: 14-07-2010 01:25:04<br/>

**Configuration Caching** : Application wide configuration information is stored in a configuration file. Configuration caching stores the configuration information in the server memory.<br/>
<outputCacheSettings><br/>
  <outputCacheProfiles><br/>
    <add name="CacheProfile1" duration="60" /><br/>
  </outputCacheProfiles><br/>
</outputCacheSettings><br/>

